---
layout: master
title: FAQ/General_Questions
---
* TOC
{:toc}

## What prompted OFTC's creation? ##

Quite simply, the group which started OFTC was unhappy with the communications
options available to Free Software and Open Source projects. We felt that a new
project was required, which would devote itself to providing services to the
Free Software and Open Source communities.

## Isn't OFTC's structure awfully bureaucratic? ##

OFTC's staff have the power to make decisions that need to be made immediately.
Any decisions on policy - which include the addition of staff and servers - are
made by a central administrative body known as the Network Operations Committee,
with aid from users and staff.

## What services does OFTC provide? ##

Currently, OFTC provides an IRC network for use. We expect to expand quickly
into mailing lists, followed more slowly by web services and an NNTP server.
Ultimately, we wish to also provide some form of source repository management,
such as CVS.

## Does this FAQ get updated? ##

Yes. As more services are added, sections for each of those services will be
added to this FAQ, and it may also be updated to reflect policy changes or
simple corrections.

## Why does OFTC exist? Freenode already provides IRC for this community. ##

OFTC aims to provide many services to the community, including but not limited
to mailing lists, project web pages, NNTP, and ultimately CVS. IRC is a logical
first step, since resource requirements are very low, and momentum can be gained
with which to grow into a more complete project.

## Is OFTC a democracy? ##

Not quite. Due to the difficulty in creating an on-line voting mechanism
resistant to abuse, the only voters on OFTC are those who directly contribute to
OFTC itself. We are exploring options to allow regular users of OFTC's services
to vote as well, but at present, only OFTC staff run during elections, and only
OFTC staff vote.

## Whose idea was this project? ##

A number of members of the Open Source and Free Software communities came
together and decided that there was a need for this type of project. That need
had not been fulfilled, and they felt they would be able to create and
administer such a project.

## I have a question, request, or comment. Who do I go to? ##

All active staff members can be found on the the [Staff](/staff) page. You may
contact them directly on our IRC servers, or you may wish to contact us through
email at support.

## Is there a mailing list on which users can discuss the network? ##

OFTC provides a mailing list open to all members at `oftc-user@lists.oftc.net`.
To subscribe, email `oftc-user-request@lists.oftc.net` with the subject "subscribe
oftc-user".

## I wish to complain about a staff member or the network. Who do I talk to? ##

The Ombudsman is in charge of dealing with all complaints against staff members
or the Network as a whole. Contact the Ombudsman here. If you wish to complain
about the Ombudsman, contact the network's Chair here.

## The constitution mentions a Policy Document. Where can I find it? ##

The policy document is a summary of all decisions made by the [Network
Operations Committee](/Network Operations Committee), and will be released as
soon as is possible. It involves going through well over ten thousand lines of
conversation, and producing a readable document. It has not yet been completed.

## How is OFTC's constitution enforced? ##

[Software in the Public Interest](http://www.spi-inc.org/) holds our domain name
in trust and with it has the necessary power and authority to enforce our
constitution.

## How can I use OFTC's various services? ##

The only service ready for use is IRC. To use it, use your favourite IRC client
to log on to `irc.oftc.net`. As more services become available, information will
be provided about them on our project web site.

## What happened to Mibbit's access to OFTC? ##

Please refer to the [Mibbit document](/Mibbit) that we have prepared that outlines why access via Mibbit is no longer possible.
