---
layout: master
title: Network Representative
---
Dear recruit,

Congratulations, you've been voted to the position of
[NetRep](/Network_Representative). If you wish to accept this position, please
read on. If not, please inform a member of the [NOC](/Network Operations
Committee) that you do not wish to accept this position at this time.

## Network Representative Guidelines ##

More than a privilege, this is a responsibility, and a stepping stone for
further, deeper involvement in the Network's administration.

We do not select [Network Representatives](/Network_Representative) based on
technical merit. Between elections, the [NOC](/Network Operations Committee)
selects members of the staff to be [Network
Representatives](/Network_Representative) based on a number of factors,
including previous record on the Network, social skills, and the ability to
learn from, listen to, and cooperate with other [staff](/staff) and interact
with the users of the Network.

[Network Representatives](/Network_Representative) are not granted any special
abilities by default, with the exception of access to the Network's private
[staff](/staff) channel.

As a [Network_Representative](/Network_Representative), your primary task is to
assist users in any way you can, or to seek the assistance of
[NetOps](/Network_Operator) or [NOC](/Network Operations Committee) members when
you don't have the necessary priveleges, and to pass on concerns expressed about
the running of the network to [NOC](/Network Operations Committee) members for
discussion, so that the network may continue to run in a free and open manner.
[Network Representatives](/Network_Representative) may also be asked by
department heads to assist in their operations as their skills
allow.

Any time there is an event which you find needs to be logged, send an email to
eventlog@lists.oftc.net with details so that the event may be logged and
archived.

[Network Representatives](/Network_Representative) are representatives of the
Network, and as such, anything you say in public can be interpreted as the
position of the Network. Misrepresenting the Network or the position of the
Network may result in a review by the [Ombudsman](/Ombudsman) or by the
[NOC](/Network Operations Committee), potentially resulting in disciplinary
action ranging from a note on your record to expulsion from [staff](/staff).

If you have questions, suggestions, or comments about your role, feel free to
contact other members of the [staff](/staff).
